README.md, before:

# SLIP-0039 implementation in C without dependencies

## Usage

`$ slip0039 [ -d ] [ -q ] recover`

`$ slip0039 [ -d ] [ -q ] split <SEED> <EXP> <GT> <XofY>..`

option `-d` (debug) displays the shares, secrets and digests in the known groups
at program exit

option `-q` (quiet) shuts up warnings

    0 - 9, A - F are the numbers of the groups/shares
    ? means 'digest'
    S means 'secret'
    P means 'plaintext' (decrypted secret)

### Mode `recover` (default when no mode is specified)

In this mode, the first line of standard input is the passphrase, and the
rest of the lines (until EOF) are mnemonics, the output is a base16 encoded
string of the secret when there are no errors and is an errormessage when there
are

### Mode `split`

in mode split, the first line of standard input is also the passphrase, the
second line of standard input should be the master secret in hex

on the commandline the `SEED`, the iteration `EXP`onent and the specifications of
groups must be given

the `ID` is the low 15 bits of the first 2 bytes of SHA256 of `SEED`

shares and the `n - 4` bytes of the digest share are computed with PBKDF2 with the
`EMS || SEED` as password and other parameters that decide the structure of the
split as salt. If `SEED` is not kept secret, then an adversary that already knows
`EMS`, can use it to guess the structure of the split i.e. how many shares each
group has.

The first `XofY` reflects the distribution of shares in the first group.
The second `XofY` reflects the distribution of shares in the second group.
etc

## Features

* Attempts are made to wipe all sensitive data from memory upon termination.

* Data is locked memory so that it does not get swapped out to disk.

* The program is constructed such that the amount of data that is needlessly
  rearranged and copied around is reduced.

* The output of the program is deterministic, so that the output can be
  reproduced on multiple machines and it is easy to see that he random data in
  the shares and in the second part of the digest share contains no information.

* Sensitive data should be handled in constant time.

## Testsuite

The original test-suite is included as the first 40 entries of vectors.json and can
be checked by running `./test.sh` or `make test`

Test 41 can detect certain errors in modular arithmetic.

## Portability

The program is known to work on Linux and MacOS. MacOS does not support
mlockall(), so when you use this application on MacOS your secret may leak to
swap.

## Examples

Example split `MS = 000000000000000000000000000000`, `SEED = fdsaludskj` with debug output:

    $ slip0039 split -d fdsaludskj 0 4 2of3 5of10 1of1 7of14 << EOF
    TREZOR
    00000000000000000000000000000000
    EOF
    ladybug academic adult roster cubic verify detailed aquatic smoking literary tadpole mineral party garlic enemy window peaceful custody warn slap
    ladybug academic adult scared capture surface station should decrease patent likely slice element olympic true reward subject geology fluff dynamic
    ladybug academic adult shadow average peaceful vexed deal finance silver grocery disaster together lift campus install boundary vexed wolf ruin
    ladybug academic benefit ruin clothes adequate damage champion nervous charity express document upstairs march midst airport merchant payroll counter tidy
    ladybug academic benefit scholar cover script income crush empty making leaf earth curious course bumpy human critical daisy rumor hunting
    ladybug academic benefit shaped club cause coal public modify junction parking snake theory salt unknown again losing fragment ancient smirk
    ladybug academic benefit slap actress wrote lobe discuss subject perfect hospital join impulse belong replace forget execute pregnant general hawk
    ladybug academic benefit sniff analysis valid remove angel tolerate welfare devote oral learn sprinkle medal detailed owner snapshot dream cargo
    ladybug academic benefit spine early hand fortune resident security imply express facility inmate failure papa national edge oven airline party
    ladybug academic benefit stilt behavior advocate mayor vintage employer crush hazard science device blind phantom perfect admit peanut modify material
    ladybug academic benefit swing apart legs mineral rumor valuable snapshot behavior phantom market together findings deploy problem merit course carve
    ladybug academic benefit teaspoon cage infant dramatic client prisoner ecology carpet plot various screw tackle carbon welfare pile arena merit
    ladybug academic benefit thunder beaver quick garden material surface premium submit evening velvet clinic strategy squeeze burning lilac increase visual
    ladybug academic chubby romp dance swimming replace shaft peaceful escape jewelry fact corner thorn music human wrap vampire fragment carbon
    ladybug academic depart rumor clogs grill answer thank rich unwrap hormone task slow lift discuss august depend usual human memory
    ladybug academic depart scout alcohol ocean cultural aluminum revenue filter writing stick location soul velvet omit testify fumes erode famous
    ladybug academic depart shelter amuse gather glad says believe extra garlic dress guilt moment hamster quantity legend machine sled pajamas
    ladybug academic depart sled depart necklace picture smart display pencil alcohol aviation remove aunt spray adult class wrote knife race
    ladybug academic depart software dance careful submit nervous beaver wisdom client stadium prize width twin lunar station laden regret juice
    ladybug academic depart spit average nail endless pumps mule robin resident dynamic plunge hairy orange depict curly tension float have
    ladybug academic depart strategy dough branch license revenue mother guilt victim jacket scout merit parking review headset percent bucket huge
    ladybug academic depart symbolic afraid much wisdom improve downtown gravity orbit petition flip shaft pants crisis testify theory herd rapids
    ladybug academic depart tenant damage item yelp taxi breathe source nail slush criminal frost literary exhaust library retreat armed junk
    ladybug academic depart tidy champion glad grownup stadium alto adjust birthday glen scandal disaster execute photo failure nuclear ceramic provide
    ladybug academic depart trend dish syndrome inside blue clinic campus making style undergo unhappy arcade slap tackle raisin grin romp
    ladybug academic depart undergo daisy rumor artwork scroll being lift zero elephant nylon ecology puny alive laser entrance task safari
    ladybug academic depart valuable desktop tenant that crystal spend very dress describe civil gross fatal decision grumpy lamp unhappy should
    ladybug academic depart violence dive mayor rumor stick express submit prospect involve legs ruler clock yield oven hearing already sister
    slip0039:debug:---START---internal slip0039 data----
    slip0039:debug:size of master secret=16 bytes
    slip0039:debug:Identifier=0x3f00
    slip0039:debug:Iteration exponent=0 (2500 iterations per round)
    slip0039:debug:/    count= 4 available= 4 threshold= 4  (ladybug academic)
    slip0039:debug:/0/  count= 3 available= 3 threshold= 2   (adult)
    slip0039:debug:/0/0   b3f38d50c7408577c91e886051bfb68d    (roster)
    slip0039:debug:/0/1   79dbf5fca4c7a260fcdd0c9c3acbdf69    (scared)
    slip0039:debug:/0/2   3ca37d130155cb59a3839b838757645e    (shadow)
    slip0039:debug:/0/?   ffb04823d369bbc2691db895f41ef4b0 
    slip0039:debug:/0/S   3598308fb0ee9cd55cde3c699f6a9d54 
    slip0039:debug:/1/  count=10 available=10 threshold= 5   (benefit)
    slip0039:debug:/1/0   98020ba2166221d3f3a7c18ca4405a40    (ruin)
    slip0039:debug:/1/1   a4c65cd2c5178ae013f8b528c6c6f4ad    (scholar)
    slip0039:debug:/1/2   992049bb0e4e7aa87d0b8fc2fbd0421b    (shaped)
    slip0039:debug:/1/3   06fea1938769a51ba799cb12eeb5a938    (slap)
    slip0039:debug:/1/4   26f16e70ab9cfa4d89ca02d623b3567b    (sniff)
    slip0039:debug:/1/5   fd6996cbbf1e7253f50dd65168497d04    (spine)
    slip0039:debug:/1/6   4803a39f55162c5acc54d715e97a500a    (stilt)
    slip0039:debug:/1/7   3081e47c1bc6d0c48a5e33e6d5633ebb    (swing)
    slip0039:debug:/1/8   72748f024ab840c7eaabc9c637a1ebe9    (teaspoon)
    slip0039:debug:/1/9   45b39808db6fac76a4bbcb25366d686f    (thunder)
    slip0039:debug:/1/?   0bcf1beb0aaa14a35ddbdc712795a848 
    slip0039:debug:/1/S   873b207a9511a368b31889c92fdfe04f 
    slip0039:debug:/2/  count= 1 available= 1 threshold= 1   (chubby)
    slip0039:debug:/2/0   bbdceebc8a8d4a9e5510a0e465c6f7f7    (romp)
    slip0039:debug:/2/S   bbdceebc8a8d4a9e5510a0e465c6f7f7 
    slip0039:debug:/3/  count=14 available=14 threshold= 7   (depart)
    slip0039:debug:/3/0   966602de32faefdb9dfb39838e10e8cd    (rumor)
    slip0039:debug:/3/1   1a9b8b4082f5553f9d8e1ad27cb9c78a    (scout)
    slip0039:debug:/3/2   2560d8ac3c4a505813c9a1941a5b3206    (shelter)
    slip0039:debug:/3/3   cc9829dcece5a481a0f6e70ef570308f    (sled)
    slip0039:debug:/3/4   bb1f36a98845fc092d6ebafafaf87f5f    (software)
    slip0039:debug:/3/5   3c97919b1658bf6ef3f2ab69273338b6    (spit)
    slip0039:debug:/3/6   ed1820dbd653687d278f1690687bd9ad    (strategy)
    slip0039:debug:/3/7   0f95ff0728ee65274a5962c8a832b38a    (symbolic)
    slip0039:debug:/3/8   ba787fce0462d2a5ece8ab5da154ea0c    (tenant)
    slip0039:debug:/3/9   856299dd6c1f024516371038138a6545    (tidy)
    slip0039:debug:/3/A   e3de1d8160941d62bda3b6ee432cd37a    (trend)
    slip0039:debug:/3/B   b9c1837c684983bff4366840ec7071fd    (undergo)
    slip0039:debug:/3/C   d3e1b8d2cb50f3cf23408e66d4e3119e    (valuable)
    slip0039:debug:/3/D   e78e706d8d3fdaac077607c1495ff679    (violence)
    slip0039:debug:/3/?   87b5ac71bd9c550f90814d5c4b054fe4 
    slip0039:debug:/3/S   0971836d200977a0737dcda759510dca 
    slip0039:debug:/?     c282dcebcb07e251d6c4dff4871476c3 
    slip0039:debug:/S     704f8961a3517062e43073980c32c40a 
    slip0039:debug:/P     00000000000000000000000000000000 
    slip0039:debug:---END-----internal slip0039 data----

Example Recover with debug output:

    $ slip0039 -d << EOF
    TREZOR
    ladybug academic adult roster cubic verify detailed aquatic smoking literary tadpole mineral party garlic enemy window peaceful custody warn slap
    ladybug academic adult scared capture surface station should decrease patent likely slice element olympic true reward subject geology fluff dynamic
    ladybug academic benefit ruin clothes adequate damage champion nervous charity express document upstairs march midst airport merchant payroll counter tidy
    ladybug academic benefit scholar cover script income crush empty making leaf earth curious course bumpy human critical daisy rumor hunting
    ladybug academic benefit shaped club cause coal public modify junction parking snake theory salt unknown again losing fragment ancient smirk
    ladybug academic benefit slap actress wrote lobe discuss subject perfect hospital join impulse belong replace forget execute pregnant general hawk
    ladybug academic benefit sniff analysis valid remove angel tolerate welfare devote oral learn sprinkle medal detailed owner snapshot dream cargo
    ladybug academic chubby romp dance swimming replace shaft peaceful escape jewelry fact corner thorn music human wrap vampire fragment carbon
    ladybug academic depart rumor clogs grill answer thank rich unwrap hormone task slow lift discuss august depend usual human memory
    ladybug academic depart scout alcohol ocean cultural aluminum revenue filter writing stick location soul velvet omit testify fumes erode famous
    ladybug academic depart shelter amuse gather glad says believe extra garlic dress guilt moment hamster quantity legend machine sled pajamas
    ladybug academic depart sled depart necklace picture smart display pencil alcohol aviation remove aunt spray adult class wrote knife race
    ladybug academic depart software dance careful submit nervous beaver wisdom client stadium prize width twin lunar station laden regret juice
    ladybug academic depart spit average nail endless pumps mule robin resident dynamic plunge hairy orange depict curly tension float have
    ladybug academic depart strategy dough branch license revenue mother guilt victim jacket scout merit parking review headset percent bucket huge
    EOF
    00000000000000000000000000000000
    slip0039:debug:---START---internal slip0039 data----
    slip0039:debug:size of master secret=16 bytes
    slip0039:debug:Identifier=0x3f00
    slip0039:debug:Iteration exponent=0 (2500 iterations per round)
    slip0039:debug:/    count= 4 available= 4 threshold= 4  (ladybug academic)
    slip0039:debug:/0/  count= ? available= 2 threshold= 2   (adult)
    slip0039:debug:/0/0   b3f38d50c7408577c91e886051bfb68d    (roster)
    slip0039:debug:/0/1   79dbf5fca4c7a260fcdd0c9c3acbdf69    (scared)
    slip0039:debug:/0/?   ffb04823d369bbc2691db895f41ef4b0 
    slip0039:debug:/0/S   3598308fb0ee9cd55cde3c699f6a9d54 
    slip0039:debug:/1/  count= ? available= 5 threshold= 5   (benefit)
    slip0039:debug:/1/0   98020ba2166221d3f3a7c18ca4405a40    (ruin)
    slip0039:debug:/1/1   a4c65cd2c5178ae013f8b528c6c6f4ad    (scholar)
    slip0039:debug:/1/2   992049bb0e4e7aa87d0b8fc2fbd0421b    (shaped)
    slip0039:debug:/1/3   06fea1938769a51ba799cb12eeb5a938    (slap)
    slip0039:debug:/1/4   26f16e70ab9cfa4d89ca02d623b3567b    (sniff)
    slip0039:debug:/1/?   0bcf1beb0aaa14a35ddbdc712795a848 
    slip0039:debug:/1/S   873b207a9511a368b31889c92fdfe04f 
    slip0039:debug:/2/  count= ? available= 1 threshold= 1   (chubby)
    slip0039:debug:/2/0   bbdceebc8a8d4a9e5510a0e465c6f7f7    (romp)
    slip0039:debug:/2/S   bbdceebc8a8d4a9e5510a0e465c6f7f7 
    slip0039:debug:/3/  count= ? available= 7 threshold= 7   (depart)
    slip0039:debug:/3/0   966602de32faefdb9dfb39838e10e8cd    (rumor)
    slip0039:debug:/3/1   1a9b8b4082f5553f9d8e1ad27cb9c78a    (scout)
    slip0039:debug:/3/2   2560d8ac3c4a505813c9a1941a5b3206    (shelter)
    slip0039:debug:/3/3   cc9829dcece5a481a0f6e70ef570308f    (sled)
    slip0039:debug:/3/4   bb1f36a98845fc092d6ebafafaf87f5f    (software)
    slip0039:debug:/3/5   3c97919b1658bf6ef3f2ab69273338b6    (spit)
    slip0039:debug:/3/6   ed1820dbd653687d278f1690687bd9ad    (strategy)
    slip0039:debug:/3/?   87b5ac71bd9c550f90814d5c4b054fe4 
    slip0039:debug:/3/S   0971836d200977a0737dcda759510dca 
    slip0039:debug:/?     c282dcebcb07e251d6c4dff4871476c3 
    slip0039:debug:/S     704f8961a3517062e43073980c32c40a 
    slip0039:debug:/P     00000000000000000000000000000000 
    slip0039:debug:---END-----internal slip0039 data----

Commit message:

update comment on MacOS not having mlockall()

README.md, after:

# SLIP-0039 implementation in C without dependencies

## Usage

`$ slip0039 [ -d ] [ -q ] recover`

`$ slip0039 [ -d ] [ -q ] split <SEED> <EXP> <GT> <XofY>..`

option `-d` (debug) displays the shares, secrets and digests in the known groups
at program exit

option `-q` (quiet) shuts up warnings

    0 - 9, A - F are the numbers of the groups/shares
    ? means 'digest'
    S means 'secret'
    P means 'plaintext' (decrypted secret)

### Mode `recover` (default when no mode is specified)

In this mode, the first line of standard input is the passphrase, and the
rest of the lines (until EOF) are mnemonics, the output is a base16 encoded
string of the secret when there are no errors and is an errormessage when there
are

### Mode `split`

in mode split, the first line of standard input is also the passphrase, the
second line of standard input should be the master secret in hex

on the commandline the `SEED`, the iteration `EXP`onent and the specifications of
groups must be given

the `ID` is the low 15 bits of the first 2 bytes of SHA256 of `SEED`

shares and the `n - 4` bytes of the digest share are computed with PBKDF2 with the
`EMS || SEED` as password and other parameters that decide the structure of the
split as salt. If `SEED` is not kept secret, then an adversary that already knows
`EMS`, can use it to guess the structure of the split i.e. how many shares each
group has.

The first `XofY` reflects the distribution of shares in the first group.
The second `XofY` reflects the distribution of shares in the second group.
etc

## Features

* Attempts are made to wipe all sensitive data from memory upon termination.

* Data is locked memory so that it does not get swapped out to disk.

* The program is constructed such that the amount of data that is needlessly
  rearranged and copied around is reduced.

* The output of the program is deterministic, so that the output can be
  reproduced on multiple machines and it is easy to see that he random data in
  the shares and in the second part of the digest share contains no information.

* Sensitive data should be handled in constant time.

## Testsuite

The original test-suite is included as the first 40 entries of vectors.json and can
be checked by running `./test.sh` or `make test`

Test 41 can detect certain errors in modular arithmetic.

## Portability

The program is known to work on Linux and MacOS. Issues pertaining to MacOS not having mlockall() have been fixed.

## Examples

Example split `MS = 000000000000000000000000000000`, `SEED = fdsaludskj` with debug output:

    $ slip0039 split -d fdsaludskj 0 4 2of3 5of10 1of1 7of14 << EOF
    TREZOR
    00000000000000000000000000000000
    EOF
    ladybug academic adult roster cubic verify detailed aquatic smoking literary tadpole mineral party garlic enemy window peaceful custody warn slap
    ladybug academic adult scared capture surface station should decrease patent likely slice element olympic true reward subject geology fluff dynamic
    ladybug academic adult shadow average peaceful vexed deal finance silver grocery disaster together lift campus install boundary vexed wolf ruin
    ladybug academic benefit ruin clothes adequate damage champion nervous charity express document upstairs march midst airport merchant payroll counter tidy
    ladybug academic benefit scholar cover script income crush empty making leaf earth curious course bumpy human critical daisy rumor hunting
    ladybug academic benefit shaped club cause coal public modify junction parking snake theory salt unknown again losing fragment ancient smirk
    ladybug academic benefit slap actress wrote lobe discuss subject perfect hospital join impulse belong replace forget execute pregnant general hawk
    ladybug academic benefit sniff analysis valid remove angel tolerate welfare devote oral learn sprinkle medal detailed owner snapshot dream cargo
    ladybug academic benefit spine early hand fortune resident security imply express facility inmate failure papa national edge oven airline party
    ladybug academic benefit stilt behavior advocate mayor vintage employer crush hazard science device blind phantom perfect admit peanut modify material
    ladybug academic benefit swing apart legs mineral rumor valuable snapshot behavior phantom market together findings deploy problem merit course carve
    ladybug academic benefit teaspoon cage infant dramatic client prisoner ecology carpet plot various screw tackle carbon welfare pile arena merit
    ladybug academic benefit thunder beaver quick garden material surface premium submit evening velvet clinic strategy squeeze burning lilac increase visual
    ladybug academic chubby romp dance swimming replace shaft peaceful escape jewelry fact corner thorn music human wrap vampire fragment carbon
    ladybug academic depart rumor clogs grill answer thank rich unwrap hormone task slow lift discuss august depend usual human memory
    ladybug academic depart scout alcohol ocean cultural aluminum revenue filter writing stick location soul velvet omit testify fumes erode famous
    ladybug academic depart shelter amuse gather glad says believe extra garlic dress guilt moment hamster quantity legend machine sled pajamas
    ladybug academic depart sled depart necklace picture smart display pencil alcohol aviation remove aunt spray adult class wrote knife race
    ladybug academic depart software dance careful submit nervous beaver wisdom client stadium prize width twin lunar station laden regret juice
    ladybug academic depart spit average nail endless pumps mule robin resident dynamic plunge hairy orange depict curly tension float have
    ladybug academic depart strategy dough branch license revenue mother guilt victim jacket scout merit parking review headset percent bucket huge
    ladybug academic depart symbolic afraid much wisdom improve downtown gravity orbit petition flip shaft pants crisis testify theory herd rapids
    ladybug academic depart tenant damage item yelp taxi breathe source nail slush criminal frost literary exhaust library retreat armed junk
    ladybug academic depart tidy champion glad grownup stadium alto adjust birthday glen scandal disaster execute photo failure nuclear ceramic provide
    ladybug academic depart trend dish syndrome inside blue clinic campus making style undergo unhappy arcade slap tackle raisin grin romp
    ladybug academic depart undergo daisy rumor artwork scroll being lift zero elephant nylon ecology puny alive laser entrance task safari
    ladybug academic depart valuable desktop tenant that crystal spend very dress describe civil gross fatal decision grumpy lamp unhappy should
    ladybug academic depart violence dive mayor rumor stick express submit prospect involve legs ruler clock yield oven hearing already sister
    slip0039:debug:---START---internal slip0039 data----
    slip0039:debug:size of master secret=16 bytes
    slip0039:debug:Identifier=0x3f00
    slip0039:debug:Iteration exponent=0 (2500 iterations per round)
    slip0039:debug:/    count= 4 available= 4 threshold= 4  (ladybug academic)
    slip0039:debug:/0/  count= 3 available= 3 threshold= 2   (adult)
    slip0039:debug:/0/0   b3f38d50c7408577c91e886051bfb68d    (roster)
    slip0039:debug:/0/1   79dbf5fca4c7a260fcdd0c9c3acbdf69    (scared)
    slip0039:debug:/0/2   3ca37d130155cb59a3839b838757645e    (shadow)
    slip0039:debug:/0/?   ffb04823d369bbc2691db895f41ef4b0 
    slip0039:debug:/0/S   3598308fb0ee9cd55cde3c699f6a9d54 
    slip0039:debug:/1/  count=10 available=10 threshold= 5   (benefit)
    slip0039:debug:/1/0   98020ba2166221d3f3a7c18ca4405a40    (ruin)
    slip0039:debug:/1/1   a4c65cd2c5178ae013f8b528c6c6f4ad    (scholar)
    slip0039:debug:/1/2   992049bb0e4e7aa87d0b8fc2fbd0421b    (shaped)
    slip0039:debug:/1/3   06fea1938769a51ba799cb12eeb5a938    (slap)
    slip0039:debug:/1/4   26f16e70ab9cfa4d89ca02d623b3567b    (sniff)
    slip0039:debug:/1/5   fd6996cbbf1e7253f50dd65168497d04    (spine)
    slip0039:debug:/1/6   4803a39f55162c5acc54d715e97a500a    (stilt)
    slip0039:debug:/1/7   3081e47c1bc6d0c48a5e33e6d5633ebb    (swing)
    slip0039:debug:/1/8   72748f024ab840c7eaabc9c637a1ebe9    (teaspoon)
    slip0039:debug:/1/9   45b39808db6fac76a4bbcb25366d686f    (thunder)
    slip0039:debug:/1/?   0bcf1beb0aaa14a35ddbdc712795a848 
    slip0039:debug:/1/S   873b207a9511a368b31889c92fdfe04f 
    slip0039:debug:/2/  count= 1 available= 1 threshold= 1   (chubby)
    slip0039:debug:/2/0   bbdceebc8a8d4a9e5510a0e465c6f7f7    (romp)
    slip0039:debug:/2/S   bbdceebc8a8d4a9e5510a0e465c6f7f7 
    slip0039:debug:/3/  count=14 available=14 threshold= 7   (depart)
    slip0039:debug:/3/0   966602de32faefdb9dfb39838e10e8cd    (rumor)
    slip0039:debug:/3/1   1a9b8b4082f5553f9d8e1ad27cb9c78a    (scout)
    slip0039:debug:/3/2   2560d8ac3c4a505813c9a1941a5b3206    (shelter)
    slip0039:debug:/3/3   cc9829dcece5a481a0f6e70ef570308f    (sled)
    slip0039:debug:/3/4   bb1f36a98845fc092d6ebafafaf87f5f    (software)
    slip0039:debug:/3/5   3c97919b1658bf6ef3f2ab69273338b6    (spit)
    slip0039:debug:/3/6   ed1820dbd653687d278f1690687bd9ad    (strategy)
    slip0039:debug:/3/7   0f95ff0728ee65274a5962c8a832b38a    (symbolic)
    slip0039:debug:/3/8   ba787fce0462d2a5ece8ab5da154ea0c    (tenant)
    slip0039:debug:/3/9   856299dd6c1f024516371038138a6545    (tidy)
    slip0039:debug:/3/A   e3de1d8160941d62bda3b6ee432cd37a    (trend)
    slip0039:debug:/3/B   b9c1837c684983bff4366840ec7071fd    (undergo)
    slip0039:debug:/3/C   d3e1b8d2cb50f3cf23408e66d4e3119e    (valuable)
    slip0039:debug:/3/D   e78e706d8d3fdaac077607c1495ff679    (violence)
    slip0039:debug:/3/?   87b5ac71bd9c550f90814d5c4b054fe4 
    slip0039:debug:/3/S   0971836d200977a0737dcda759510dca 
    slip0039:debug:/?     c282dcebcb07e251d6c4dff4871476c3 
    slip0039:debug:/S     704f8961a3517062e43073980c32c40a 
    slip0039:debug:/P     00000000000000000000000000000000 
    slip0039:debug:---END-----internal slip0039 data----

Example Recover with debug output:

    $ slip0039 -d << EOF
    TREZOR
    ladybug academic adult roster cubic verify detailed aquatic smoking literary tadpole mineral party garlic enemy window peaceful custody warn slap
    ladybug academic adult scared capture surface station should decrease patent likely slice element olympic true reward subject geology fluff dynamic
    ladybug academic benefit ruin clothes adequate damage champion nervous charity express document upstairs march midst airport merchant payroll counter tidy
    ladybug academic benefit scholar cover script income crush empty making leaf earth curious course bumpy human critical daisy rumor hunting
    ladybug academic benefit shaped club cause coal public modify junction parking snake theory salt unknown again losing fragment ancient smirk
    ladybug academic benefit slap actress wrote lobe discuss subject perfect hospital join impulse belong replace forget execute pregnant general hawk
    ladybug academic benefit sniff analysis valid remove angel tolerate welfare devote oral learn sprinkle medal detailed owner snapshot dream cargo
    ladybug academic chubby romp dance swimming replace shaft peaceful escape jewelry fact corner thorn music human wrap vampire fragment carbon
    ladybug academic depart rumor clogs grill answer thank rich unwrap hormone task slow lift discuss august depend usual human memory
    ladybug academic depart scout alcohol ocean cultural aluminum revenue filter writing stick location soul velvet omit testify fumes erode famous
    ladybug academic depart shelter amuse gather glad says believe extra garlic dress guilt moment hamster quantity legend machine sled pajamas
    ladybug academic depart sled depart necklace picture smart display pencil alcohol aviation remove aunt spray adult class wrote knife race
    ladybug academic depart software dance careful submit nervous beaver wisdom client stadium prize width twin lunar station laden regret juice
    ladybug academic depart spit average nail endless pumps mule robin resident dynamic plunge hairy orange depict curly tension float have
    ladybug academic depart strategy dough branch license revenue mother guilt victim jacket scout merit parking review headset percent bucket huge
    EOF
    00000000000000000000000000000000
    slip0039:debug:---START---internal slip0039 data----
    slip0039:debug:size of master secret=16 bytes
    slip0039:debug:Identifier=0x3f00
    slip0039:debug:Iteration exponent=0 (2500 iterations per round)
    slip0039:debug:/    count= 4 available= 4 threshold= 4  (ladybug academic)
    slip0039:debug:/0/  count= ? available= 2 threshold= 2   (adult)
    slip0039:debug:/0/0   b3f38d50c7408577c91e886051bfb68d    (roster)
    slip0039:debug:/0/1   79dbf5fca4c7a260fcdd0c9c3acbdf69    (scared)
    slip0039:debug:/0/?   ffb04823d369bbc2691db895f41ef4b0 
    slip0039:debug:/0/S   3598308fb0ee9cd55cde3c699f6a9d54 
    slip0039:debug:/1/  count= ? available= 5 threshold= 5   (benefit)
    slip0039:debug:/1/0   98020ba2166221d3f3a7c18ca4405a40    (ruin)
    slip0039:debug:/1/1   a4c65cd2c5178ae013f8b528c6c6f4ad    (scholar)
    slip0039:debug:/1/2   992049bb0e4e7aa87d0b8fc2fbd0421b    (shaped)
    slip0039:debug:/1/3   06fea1938769a51ba799cb12eeb5a938    (slap)
    slip0039:debug:/1/4   26f16e70ab9cfa4d89ca02d623b3567b    (sniff)
    slip0039:debug:/1/?   0bcf1beb0aaa14a35ddbdc712795a848 
    slip0039:debug:/1/S   873b207a9511a368b31889c92fdfe04f 
    slip0039:debug:/2/  count= ? available= 1 threshold= 1   (chubby)
    slip0039:debug:/2/0   bbdceebc8a8d4a9e5510a0e465c6f7f7    (romp)
    slip0039:debug:/2/S   bbdceebc8a8d4a9e5510a0e465c6f7f7 
    slip0039:debug:/3/  count= ? available= 7 threshold= 7   (depart)
    slip0039:debug:/3/0   966602de32faefdb9dfb39838e10e8cd    (rumor)
    slip0039:debug:/3/1   1a9b8b4082f5553f9d8e1ad27cb9c78a    (scout)
    slip0039:debug:/3/2   2560d8ac3c4a505813c9a1941a5b3206    (shelter)
    slip0039:debug:/3/3   cc9829dcece5a481a0f6e70ef570308f    (sled)
    slip0039:debug:/3/4   bb1f36a98845fc092d6ebafafaf87f5f    (software)
    slip0039:debug:/3/5   3c97919b1658bf6ef3f2ab69273338b6    (spit)
    slip0039:debug:/3/6   ed1820dbd653687d278f1690687bd9ad    (strategy)
    slip0039:debug:/3/?   87b5ac71bd9c550f90814d5c4b054fe4 
    slip0039:debug:/3/S   0971836d200977a0737dcda759510dca 
    slip0039:debug:/?     c282dcebcb07e251d6c4dff4871476c3 
    slip0039:debug:/S     704f8961a3517062e43073980c32c40a 
    slip0039:debug:/P     00000000000000000000000000000000 
    slip0039:debug:---END-----internal slip0039 data----
